Welcome back. Hopefully, you had some time to read through that blog post,
to learn about a few of the frameworks available in Node.js.
There's a lot of options, but in this lesson,
we'll focus specifically on three of them: Express, Sails, and Hapi.
Each of these are powerful frameworks with
great documentation that are easily to get set up with.
Before jumping into the code,
let's take a quick look at why they were built,
and what problems they're meant to help solve.
First, let's go over to expressjs.com.
Here's the homepage for this framework,
that you can look to for everything from getting started to developer documentation.
They pitched themselves as a fast,
unopinionated, minimalist web framework for Node.js.
Express was an early framework that helped lead to many other solutions.
It was designed primarily as a middleware and routing framework.
It's common in Fullstack applications,
two of which are the MEAN,
and MERN stacks, where the E stands for Express.
Learning Express is extremely valuable,
and will both help you develop applications as well as
understand many of the concepts related to other Node.js frameworks.
One of these frameworks that stem from Express is Sails.
Sails is a real-time MVC framework for Node.js.
You can get to their website by going to sailsjs.com.
Here, you'll see they're Get Started section,
and can scroll down a little to see more about what they're hoping to solve.
They make it easy to build custom enterprise-ready Node.js apps.
It was built to help teams build scalable
Node.js projects for startup and enterprise customers.
We'll be coming back to this site soon,,
but first I wanted to go over and give you a quick intro to the Hapi framework as well.
We can go to their website at Hapijs.com.
Their pitch is that Hapi is a rich framework for building applications and services.
Hapi was built by Walmart to solve problems they were
having trying to manage their applications using Express.
Trying to manage the codebase wasn't scaling well,
and Hapi has tried to design a more scalable solution.
So, that wraps up a very quick intro to these three frameworks.
Before moving on, feel free to look around through these sites,
and try installing them, or getting started.
This installation and getting started is also
what we're going to be going over in the next few sections.
So, if you want to try it on your own, that's great.
But if not, then you can follow along throughout the rest of the lesson.
When you're ready, I'll see you in the next section where
we'll start working more closely with Express.